So routing with pages in Next.js.
When you're creating a vanilla React app,
you have to decide which routing library,
which version you wanna use.
And they're all really good and
there's new ones popping up every day.
And you might argue that they are standard
ones out there everyone uses, but
you still have to make that decision and
you still have to install it and
you still have to set it up.
And then there's many ways to set it up.
And you gotta hope that everyone
on your team knows those ways and
they researched it just as much as you.
It's just a lot of overhead for
something so necessary.
With Next.js,
you don't have to worry about that.
They created the conventions, right?
So this is convention over configuration.
So if you follow their conventions,
then everyone can actually benefit
from something like a nice router.
And their convention is
actually just create a file.
So to get started with the routing and
pages with Next.js,
let's just head over to the code here.
We're gonna open up, I'm gonna make a new
folder called Pages right on the root.
And you'll notice that
you get this nice little
thing here on VS Code, this little icon.
And then inside here,
we're just gonna make a new file.
I'm gonna call it index.jsx.
You can put .js if you want.
If you like TypeScript, we'll talk about
TypeScript later and how you do that
with Next.js, but if you like, js,
you could put js, I'm just gonna put JSX.
And then all I'm gonna do is import.
I'm just gonna make
a vanilla React component.
So nothing special here,
nothing specific to Next.js.
I'm just gonna import React from react.
I'm gonna make a Page component like this.
And I'm just gonna have it return
a div that says Index Page like that.
And the most important part is it needs
a default export that Page like that.
So nothing special here.
Once you do that,
if you're following along,
you should now be able to use
this dev command that we have.
So I'm just gonna go
back to my terminal here.
And I'm gonna run yarn dev like that.
And you can see it says compiled
successfully, which is a good sign.
And right now it's on localhost 3000.
So I'm just gonna open that up,
go to localhost 3000.
You can see I have my Index page here,
right.
And we got that for free.
You notice, like I said, we didn't have
to set up a route or anything like that.
All I did was put a index.jsx file in
the pages directory on the root of this
application, and
I was able to get an index page for free.
Very simple,
it doesn't get easier than that.
Let's head back over to this.
So like I said,
you should be able to navigate there.
So now if we wanna do something
a little more complicated I guess,
which are like nested routes.
So if you want a path that looks something
like this, so we did the index, but
what if we have something
like project/settings, or
even something that's dynamic where it's
like, /user/ID, where ID is the parameter.
Don't even worry,
we can do that too with Next.js.
So this this part is gonna
be a little different.
And this is very specific to Next.js,
I don't think I've seen any
other framework take this exact
convention about how they do parameters.
So Next.js is very unique in this case,
but it's actually pretty simple.
And the way we can do that is
actually just create some folders.
So for instance, let's say we
wanted to create some folders,
or I'm sorry,
we wanted to create a route for our notes.
So in this case, for our note taking app,
we're gonna need the /notes route where
all of our notes are gonna load up.
And then we're gonna need the /notes/ID,
where we load one note, right?
So we're gonna need both of those routes.
We already have the index.
So we need to make both of these.
So in order to do that, what we can do
is we can just head over to our pages.
And then because both of these routes are
gonna be underneath the Notes app, because
this is actually if you think of it,
it's actually like the index of the notes.
So there's a file in
here that we have to use.
And then in here, there's an ID property.
So both of these are actually
underneath the notes path.
So we need to create a folder
here called Notes like that.
This is gonna tell the pages directory
that hey, this is a sub path,
it's a nested path.
And then to create the index for
that, I just put index.js, right.
So whenever you create an index file
in a folder in the pages directory,
it's gonna create the route for
that index of that sub path, right?
And then what we can do is we
can just do the same thing.
I'm gonna copy this,
I'm gonna paste it here.
I'm just gonna call this the Notes
index path like that, okay?
And then when it comes to creating
something dynamic, as in,
we need a parameter or
something like that.
Not query strings, because you don't
have to make routes for query strings,
you can just use query strings
just like any other app.
But for parameters, the way we can do that
with Next.js is we can use this syntax.
So we can use these
brackets like an array.
And then you can put
the name of the parameter.
You can name the parameter
whatever you want.
In this case, I'm going to call it ID,
and I'm gonna day .jsx.
So what this is telling Next.js is that,
hey,
this route is actually going to
have a parameter in it called ID.
So if we follow the folders,
it's actually going be,
the path to this will be /notes/ID.
And that's what's gonna get loaded here.
So I can just go ahead and
paste that in here.
And I can say, Note page.
Like that, right?
So everybody following me so far?
Any questions?
Okay, cool.
So, now if I have that, I can go here.
And if I redirect to notes,
you can see I'm in the note
index path like that, okay.
And then if I go to notes/ some random ID,
you can see I'm on the note page,
all right.
Pretty straightforward.
What happens if I try to
go to something else?
We get a 404.
So we get that for
free with Next.js as well.
We get a nice, arguably a very
beautiful 404 page, in my opinion.
I mean, just some simple stuff
like this is, I'm a big fan of.
That's a nice 404 page.
So we get that for free.
So yeah, pretty cool there.
Looking at this, you might have noticed
this battery pack looking icon here.
I didn't put this here.
And if you hover over it, it says
something about a pre rendered page.
You can click it, it'll take you to some
place that tells you about all types
of optimizations that they're doing.
And we'll get to a lot
of this stuff later.
But basically what this is doing,
it's letting you know that this page was
optimized by Next.js, and
it was pre rendered ahead of time.
The HTML was created before
it was sent to the server.
So this didn't load on the client,
your React component was actually rendered
on the server and sent down as HTML.
And that's what this is telling you.
Like, hey, this page was pre rendered.
It's letting you know that this was it.
And it's actually very
helpful to let you know,
because as you will find out later
on in the course, you can opt in and
opt out out of different pre rendering
modes depending on how you fetch data.
It's very helpful to know at what
time a page is pre rendered or
not during development.
So it can be very helpful.
Right now, it's just like,
yeah, we're not doing anything.
But trust me, this gets helpful in
the future, and I'm a big fan of it.